---
title: Playgrounds
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Playgrounds

> >

## There's a couple of other ways you can play with Tailwind CSS. Let's take a look at those options.

# Tailwind Play

- [Tailwind Play](https://play.tailwindcss.com/)
- Fully Configurable
- Zero Installation

> >

There is a great built in playground where you can try Tailwind CSS.tailwindcss.

It's not just linking to a CDN, but it has a built in process for building TailwindCSS, so it's very much like your own build process. You can see that in the ways that it has different tabs to choose your CSS file.

This is a great zero installation playground that you can use to try or share code with. Clearly you lose some of the options to install your own modules or customize some of the installation.

You can choose different version of Tailwind CSS from a dropdown.

You can also choose the layout of the playground.

If you hit the share button, you can copy a URL that has a copy of whatever you're done in this URL. This is great for sharing code snippets with others.

---

# CDN

```html
<script src="https://cdn.tailwindcss.com"></script>
```

Another way to play with Tailwind CSS is to use their CDN link.

Notice that this isn't a stylesheet, but a special JavaScript file hosted on a Content Delivery Network. The JavaScript file does something similar to what the build process does.

It analyzes the file that calls it and looks for places with Tailwinds CSS code. It then dynamically creates styles based on that assessment using javascript.

This lets you create your own demos on sites like CodePen or using plugins like CodeSwing.
