---
title: Utility First
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Utility First

> >

Tailwind CSS uses a technique called Utility First. It allows you to design pages from a set of utilities that mirror existing CSS styles.

---

# Utility First

- No unclear class names
- Clear intent
- No overrides
- Mirrors CSS

> >

[Comparison](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/utility-first)

Let's take a look at a comparison of the approaches from the Tailwind CSS site. With traditional CSS, you write a set of classes that identify the type of element. Traditionally, you add a sub-class based on the original that for each element you want to use.

The classes in other words are there to define the structure of the content. Then you go create some CSS that makes it look a certain way.
Contrast this with the Tailwind Approach.

You can see that Tailwind CSS classes

Obviously there are no class names to come up with or at least, you have to look up structural classes from a framework like Bootstrap to make the HTML look a certain way.

It's pretty clear what the classes do. So p-6 means you want some padding around an element that is six units in size.

You don't spend any time trying to undo styles that a framework or a parent class has established, so your CSS stops growing.

Tailwind classes closely mirror CSS classes. Chances are, if a tag exists for CSS, Tailwind already has it. One thing to watch out for is that these are sometimes classes that are not yet available in every browser.

---

# Why Not?

- A lot of classes
- Repeated Elements
- Impossible to memorize

> >

Let's be honest about some of the reasons why Tailwind CSS might not be right for your project.

First, it takes a lot of classes to even do simple designs. Let's take a lok at how you'd build a button in something like Bootstrap versus Talwind CSS.

Second, when you have to use elemets over an over, it is a nightmare to re-write the classes. Now, there are some ways around this in the framework, but it's one of those things that will turn you off to it at the beginning.

Third, I think the design system uses a set of units that can sometimes be confusing. The framework has a crazy amount of classes. Don't try to memorize them. This is one framework that will work well as long as your're ready to pull up the docs.

---

# Versus Inline Styles

- Design system
- Reponsive utilities
- State Variants

> >

You might be thinking that using these classes is pretty close to using the style attribute in HTML, so why wouldn't you use that instead.

Well, one of the reasons is that by limiting the amount of classes you have to use, you establish a design system that uses classes with related units. Just in case you're wondering, you can still use custom sizes within the framework.

There's a couple of things that you can do with Tailwind CSS that you can't do with inline styles. There are a number of responsive utilities that allow you to define how styles are applied at different breakpoints.

In a similar way, you can also uses a number of state variants that allow you to control how Tailwind CSS behaves during certain states like a hover or a focus.
