---
title: Configuration
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Configuration

> >

Tailwind CSS was designed with configuration and customization in mind, so let's take a look at some of your options.

---

# tailwind.config.js

```js
module.exports = {
  content: ['./src/**/*.{html,js}'],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        primary: '#4CC7C7'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

- Root
- [Customizing](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/background-color#customizing-your-theme)

> >

At the very beginning of the course, we looked at some of the configuration options, but let's go over them in more detail.

To specify your configuration, you have a couple of options. First, you can use a `tailwind.config.js` file. Here's a sample of one that adds a custom color to the theme.

With this file, the first thing you usually include is a content object that lets Tailwind know which files it needs to analyize in order to generate your CSS. Here we're looking for all of the html and javascript files in the source folder, regardless of the sub-folder they're in.

We'll cover the other objects in more detail in just a minute, but it's good to note that you cand find how to customize any element rigt in the documentation.

---

# Play CDN

```js
tailwind.config = {
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        primary: '#4CC7C7'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/KKyGBrL??editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

If you're using the play CDN, you can also modify an object called `tailwind.config`. I'm creating the same primary color here.

Notice that there's no content section. That makes sense because the play CDN is a javascript file that will already analyze the HTML document that calls it.

---

# Presets

```js
module.exports = {
  presets: [require('./my-preset.js')]
}
```

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/KKybOWE/97c2e838b378100173cad1729ff41cca?editors=0010" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

You saw an example of content and theme, so let's talk about the other options.

The presets lets you add a configuration file to Tailwind. That means you can load one or more styles using this array that you're going to use in your projects.

The preset file should look like a copy of your config file

---

# Dark Mode

**Config**

```js
module.exports = {
  darkMode: 'media' // or class
}
```

**HTML**

```html
<html class="dark">
  <body>
    <div class="bg-white dark:bg-black"></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

<a href="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/dark-mode" target="_blank"><code class="code-primary">Docs</code></a>

> >

The other option here is the dark mode settings. Typically dark mode is available with a media query that is set by your operating system, but you can change this to apply when there's a dark class in a parent of your HTML.

There's a pretty useful example of how to support both modes and respect the OS preference using local storage.
