---
title: Using the Exercises
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Using the Exercises

> >

Some of the files are in a GitHub Repository at this URL

Because sass sometimes requires a build process, you'll need GitHub to get to how the code looked at the end of those videos. You can go to the branches section and click to go to one of the videos on the list.

Most of the course and practice files are available on Codepen. To get the code and to my slides simply go to [raybo.org/slides_sassesst](https://raybo.org/slides_sassesst).

This will take you to a slideshow with all of the links you'll need for the course.

At the bottom of the slideshow you'l find a navigation toolbar. You can hit the t key to show or hide the toolbar.

If you hit the m key, you'll see an index of all of the slides for the course. If you click on a slide that slide will play on your monitor.

At the beginning of each slide, there is an overlay with a link to each of the slides. If you're watching the video, you can jump to each of the slides at that URL.

To move through the slides you can use the arrow keys.

The slides are fully interactive, so you can click on buttons or copy any code you see on screen.

If you click inside a text area and get stuck inside an editable item, just double click towards the top of the slides.

You also have access to a micro site with all of my notes for this course, Just open up the slide index by hitting the m key and then click on notes.

You can navigate to each of my notes on the left navigation and on the right go through each of the sections on slides.

If you want to go back to slide view click on the icon to the right of the index.

A lof of the slides have links to Codepen demos where you can follow along with me, copy the code or try it yourself.

Let’s get started.
