---
title: Using Variables
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Using Variables

> >

Variables let you create placeholders for values and then use them to apply them to different places in your designs.

---

# SASS Variables

```scss
$bg: #ead2a8;

body {
  background: $bg;
}
```

- `$NAME`
- `<variable>`: `<expression>`
- Compile to CSS

> >

We've already seen an example of variables in previous code, but let's go over how they work. Sass variables begin with a dollar sign and then a variable name.

They have a format that is similar to a CSS property declartion with a colon followed by an expression. That means it can use formulas and more complex statements.

The main difference between a SASS and a regular CSS variable (which are also known as custom properties) is that the SASS variable will always be converted to CSS. In that way, the CSS that's produced will be shorter than with regular CSS.

---

# Scope

```scss
$primary-color: red;

h1 {
  $primary-color: yellow;
  color: $primary-color;
}

p {
  color: $primary-color;
}
```

- Top Level (Global)
- Curly Braces (Local)
- Shadowing

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/NWameEN?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Variables will normally have a global scope, so you can define them once at the top of your styles and they'll be available everywhere.

You can also create variables inside curly braces and they'll become local variables instead.

Local variables can also have the same name as global variables. This is called shadowing, so just watch that you understand that behavior.

---

# Global Flag

```scss
$primary-color: red;

h1 {
  $primary-color: yellow !global;
  color: $primary-color;
}
```

- Redefines globals
- Not for new vars

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/PoJgXrq?editors=1100" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

You can redefine the value of a global variable by using the global flag at the end of a definition. Here, instead of creating a local variable, we're redefining the value of the primary color.

You can only use the global flag on an existing variable. You can't use this to create a new variable.

---

# Underscores vs Hyphens

In variable names: `_` equal `-`

```scss
$primary-color: red;
$primary_color: yellow;

h1 {
  color: $primary-color;
}
```

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/qBPwLRx?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

One thing to watch out for is that as far as sass is concerned underscores and hyphens are equivalent, so if you see the example above, you might expect that the variable called primary-hyphen-color would have a value of red, but it's been overriden by the one with the underscore.
