---
title: Maps
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Maps

> >

Your lists can get pretty complicated when you're working with values within values, so SASS provides the concepts of Maps.

---

# Map Basics

- `(<key_exp>: <val_exp>, ...)`
- Keys unique
- `@use "sass:map";`
- Immutable

```
@use "sass:map";
$colorList: (
  "primary": RoyalBlue,
  // ...
  );

/* map.get($colorList.primary) */;
```

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/bGoXYpq?editors=0100" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Maps are designed to hold key value pairs common in programming language.

The keys have to be unique, also, it's a good idea to use quotes because SASS can interpret unquoted strings as different value types.

Maps aren't an automatically included module, so you may have to use the @use at rule to include them into your project.

Just like with lists, maps are immutable, but you often need to modify a map, so you can feed the results of a map operation to the same variable.

---

# Map Methods

- Dot or hypen
- `map.get()`, `map.set()`
- `map.merge()` `map.deep-merge()`
- `map.remove()` `map.deep-remove()`
- `map.keys()`, `map.values()`
- `has.key()`

<a href="https://sass-lang.com/documentation/modules/map" target="_blank"><code class="code-warning">More Info</code></a>

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/bGoXxEK?editors=1100" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

map.get() is for getting the value of an element in a map. It will take a map and let you get the value associated with a specific key. You can also include a set of keys and that allows you to navigate through the structure of your map, to locate a specific value.

Map.set() will let you change the value of an element. Remember that maps are immutable, so this will make a copy of your map.

map.merge will let you merge two maps together like a list. The Deep merges is for when you have multi-dimensional maps with the same structure. It will look and try to combine items into a unified structure.

map.remove lets you remove a map associated with a set of keys. Remember that maps, like lists are immutable, so you can't really change them and you'll need to assign the operation to a variable.

`map.keys` and `map.values` lets you see wether a key or a value exists in a map.

Finally, you can check wether a key or a value exists in a map by using `has-key`.

Keys can get very complicated, but they are a lot like lists, so try lists first, get comfortable with them and move onto maps.

You can get more information about map methods on the documentation.

Let's take a look at an example of how you could use a map.

Maps make a bit more sense that lists, specially when things get more and more complicated, but they can also be a bit harder to figure out.
