---
title: Using Lists
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Using Lists

> >

You can use lists to create array type objects that help you go through a group of items easily.

---

# Lists

- Spaces, Commas
- Brackets `[]` or Parenthesis `()`
- Quote when spaces
- Indexed at 1
- Negative Indexes (-1)
- Immutable

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/YzrmzRp?editors=0100" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Arrays are some of the more flexible data types in Sass. You can create them by using either commas or spaces.

You can also use optional brackets or parenthesis.

If you are passing along an element that already has spaces, then you'll need to add quotes to the item or it will think it's a new element.

This is a bit weird, but Arrays are 1-indexed, so the first element is element 1. This is different than in most programming languages, so watch out.

You can even include negative indexes. This sounds weird, but it can be useful to get the last element in an array.

List values are immutable, which means that their contents never change. When we attempt to change lists, we create a copy in order to avoid potential problems.

---

# List Methods

- `length($myList)`
- `nth($myList, 2)`
- `set-nth($myList, 2, newValue)`
- `index($myList, searchValue)`
- `append($myList, newValue, comma | space)`
- `join($myList1, $myList2, comma | space)`
- `zip($myList1, $myList2)`
- `is-bracketed($myList)`
- `list-separator($myList2)`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/zYEgxaK?editors=0100" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There's a lot of different list methods in Sass, let's take a look at them and then some examples.

Although there's a lot of ways to work with lists, I think most of them make sense.
