---
title: Operators and Conditionals
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Operators and Conditionals

> >

Every programming language has a series of operators and math functions to help you take care of places where you need to do calculations. In addition sass has some special operators to compare and make decisions within your code.

---

# Operators

- `+`, `-`, **`/`**, `=`, `%`
- `math.div()`
- `list.slash()`
- smart calculations

```
/* #{4px * 6} - 24px */
/* #{1em/2em} - 1em/2em */
/* #{1px + 4px} - 5px */
```

<a href="https://sass-lang.com/documentation/modules/math" target="_blank"><code class="code-warning">More Info</code></a>

> >

Sass offers a number of traditional operators that lets you use formulas in your projects. You get the traditional addition, substraction, division as well as the equals and modulus operator.

The division operator or slash is undergoing a bit of a transition as of this recording. Right now sass uses some complex calculations to determin wether you mean to use a slash as a separator or a divisor.

If Sass thinks you are going to be using the slash as a division, you might get a warning in your processor.

In the future, sass will want you to use a math.div method to take care of divisions.

THere is also a list.slash operator that forces items written with slashes to behave as lists.

Sass is pretty smart about calculation and has a wide range of mathematical functions that you can use, so check the documentation for more information.

Unfortunately, CodePen, which we're using for demos, doesn't seem to know about the math.div function.

---

# Conditionals

```scss
$oval: false;

@if $oval {
  border-radius: 50%;
} @else {
  border-radius: 5px;
}
```

- `@if` `@else`
- `==` and `!=`
- `>`, `<=`, `>`, `>=`
- `and`, `or`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/ZEazbVq?editors=1100" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Sass conditionals are pretty typical for programming languages, you get the if and else at rule to help you make decisions based on wether a statement is true.

You can combine with with a number of operators that can help you make decisions.

Our example here, pre-defines a boolean variable falled oval, but you can also use comparison operators like == to determine if two expressions are true, or not equals to determine if they're not true.

There are also operators to compare the relative size of things.

Plus you can create more complex comparisons by combining some of these tests with the keywords and...and...or
